(ON CUE)
From Philharmonic Hall in Lincoln Center,
home of the world's greatest musical
events, the Shell Oil Company brings you
the NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC YOUNG PEOPLE'S
CONCERTS under the musical direction of
Leonard Bernstein.
And here is Mr. Bernstein.
As you may know, we
devote one Young People's program every
year to presenting young performers to
you — young people who are so gifted and
so well-developed in music that they are
already real artists. Now this year, again,
we have found great numbers of brilliant
young talents, but as it turned out, they
were almost all pianists.
It's like an epidemic — everyone seems to
have caught piano-fever. And so we've decided
to present only pianists on this
particular program; four of them, three
girls and one boy, who I believe will
really make you sit up and take notice.
These four artists are going to be heard
in two piano concertos, one by Mozart and
one by Liszt. Now there's a tricky
problem in arithmetic; how do you fit four
pianists into two concertos? Well, it's
not so hard; the three
young ladies will play one movement each
of the Mozart Concerto in A Major, which
happens to have exactly three movements;
and then the young man will play all of
the Liszt Concerto in Eb Major, which
has only one movement anyway. So
you see, it works out very neatly. One
other thing; as you may also know, we
have here at the Philharmonic not one
but three young assistant conductors, —
three new ones every year — whose job it is
to be ready at all times to help out at
rehearsals, and be ready to
take over if I, or one of our guest
conductors, should get sick. Now this
doesn't happen very often, luckily for me,
but unluckily for them. I know this
personally from my own
experience since I started out as
assistant conductor of this very
orchestra and did a lot of
waiting around myself.
And so today I'm going to ask all
three of our assistants to conduct this
Mozart Concerto, one movement each; so
again, you see, the arithmetic works out
perfectly. Here we go with the
brilliant first movement of the Mozart
Concerto in A Major, to be played by the
14-year-old
Joan Weiner, who comes to us from Arlington,
Virginia. I think you'll be amazed
by the strength and sureness of Miss
Weiner's playing; and I bet that if you closed
your eyes you'd find it hard to believe
that this was the performance of a 14-
year-old girl. The orchestra
will be under the direction of
our gifted assistant conductor, Yuri
Krasnopolsky, who despite his Russian
sounding name is a born and bred
American. (Mr. Krasnopolsky came within
an ace of being Dr. Krasnopolsky, since
he spent many years studying medicine
but finally made the
great decision and gave it all up for music.  think you will agree he made a wise choice.) Here they are.
Miss Weiner and Mr. Krasnopolsky.
You know, it used to be, in
the old days, that young ladies by the
thousands studied the piano,
as part of good breeding. It was enough
if they could play a little piece at a
party, as what was called a social
accomplishment. But our three young
ladies today have nothing at all to do
with that world; they are serious artists,
as you have just heard, and
are about to hear. Our next artist is only 12
years old; her name is Claudia Hoca;
and she will play the lovely, haunting
second movement of this same Mozart
Concerto. Claudia was born in Austria,
where her mother lived and taught school;
her father was a refugee from the
Russian Ukraine. Today they all live
happily in Buffalo, New York, where Mr.
Hoca is a professor at Niagara
University. A very cultured family all in
all; and I think you'll find Claudia's
performance equally cultured.
Our conductor this time is the talented
Zoltan Rozsnyai, which would seem to
make him Hungarian, which in fact he is — Hungarian.
(It was he who assembled the famous orchestra of Hungarian refugees.
Or rather, he is half Hungarian, half
Austrian, which gives him a certain
extra relation with Miss Hoca, to say
nothing of Mozart.)
Here they are, Miss Hoca and
Mr. Rozsnyai.
Beautiful playing by
beautiful girls.
It's going to be hard to follow them; I'd
be a little bit scared myself; but I
guarantee that our next young lady will
follow them with honors. She is the 13-
year old Pamela Paul, born in New York
City, with the extra advantage of having
a musician for a father. Still, that
shouldn't make too much difference; after
all, Joan Weiner's father is a dentist,
Claudia Hoca's father is a professor of
education, and my father is in the beauty
parlor business. So I guess there's no
strict rule about musicians' fathers.
SKIPPED
But Pamela studies with a great teacher, Professor Steuerman, at the Juilliard School in New York; and when she rips off the sparkling final movement of this Mozart Concerto — which is no child's-play — I'm sure you'll recognize the influence of a fine teacher.
This last movement
will be conducted by a very promising
lad who comes to us from France, Monsieur Serge
Fournier. (I know it's rather difficult
for you to remember all the strange
foreign names of our three assistant
conductors
but we here at the Philharmonic are
very proud of our international
relations.) So here is the finale of the
Mozart Concerto in A Major, played by
Pamela Paul, conducted by Serge Fournier.
And now we come to a young man who is so
remarkable that I'm tempted to give him
a tremendous build-up; but I'd almost
rather not, so that you might have the
same unexpected shock of pleasure and
wonderment that I had when I first heard
him play. He was just another in a long
procession of pianists who were
auditioning for us that afternoon; and out
he came, a sensitive-faced, 16-year-old boy
from Philadelphia, looking rather like a
young Persian prince, who sat down at the
piano and tore into the opening bars of
a Liszt Concerto in such a way that we
simply flipped.
SKIPPED
It was like the first time I heard Van Cliburn, years ago; listening to him play the first three bars of music, you knew you were in the presence of a star. So it is with this young Cliburn,
who is named Andre Watts;
and that mixed-up name comes from having
an American father and a
Hungarian mother, who met each other in
Nuremberg, Germany, where Andre's father
was stationed with the United States
Army. I love that kind of story; I like to
believe that international marriages
produce superior human
beings. At least this one did, as you are
about to hear, when Andre plays for you
the Liszt Concerto in Eb Major. And
because I admire his playing so much, I am
going to take the
pleasure and privilege of conducting for him myself.
Let us welcome, with warmth and pride, Andre Watts.
From Philharmonic Hall in Lincoln Center —
another NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC YOUNG
PEOPLE'S CONCERT under the musical
direction of Leonard Bernstein has been
presented by the Shell Oil Company. This
concert — "Young Performers" — featured piano
concertos by Mozart and Liszt. The next
concert in the YOUNG PEOPLE'S series will
be presented in seven weeks on Friday,
March 8, at which time Mr.
Bernstein's subject will be "The Latin
American Spirit." The preceding program
was prerecorded and was produced and
directed by Roger Englander. Be sure to
see "Shell's Wonderful World of Golf,"
Sunday, January
20th, on another network. Check your
local listings for time and station.